# Collective Public License

This is the repository for the Collective Public License. 

## Purpose

This license was created to address several issues that appear to be present in
modern open-source and free software development. Among these are the problems
that present when a project decides that a new license is required. This can
happen for a large number of reasons, but most commonly when a project is being
developed under the terms of one license, but there is a need or desire to
incorporate code or libraries developed under a different license with
conflicting terms. 

Relicensing existing software is hard, but under current
development practices, this generally means contacting all prior contributors
and getting permission from each one in turn to have their portions relicenced.
If contributors were unavailable or did not agree to the change, then the code
generally couldn't be licensed under anything but the original license. This
effectively makes relicensing impossible for modern software projects. 

This means that if software requires inclusion of a conflicting piece of
code, either the needed code must be reimplemented, or the code must be used
illegally by violating the license. This, in turn, hurts open source development
and encourages entities to ignore it entirely. 

The COLPL addresses this by assigning copyright to a single entity or group, 
defined as the author in terms of copyright, while protecting that individual
contributions are still property of their original author by defining the work
as a "Collective Work". This allows the code contributed by third parties to be
considered part of the whole, while the individual contributor retains ownership
of the code itself as expressed, allowing them full reuse and control over the
ideas and text of the code. 

This allows programmers and developers to contribute to COLPL-licensed projects
without adhering to or signing a Contributor Licence Agreement (CLA), while also
allowing those projects the ability to relicense their own code without problems
later on in the future.

## How-To

COLPL is not intended to be used as a single licence, but rather appended as
terms on an existing license. This means that applying the COLPL to your project
requires an additional licence appended to the end. For example, the COLPL is
written and distributed under its own terms, plus those of the Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license, which could be tersely
expressed as COLPL + CC-BY-SA 4.0. 

## Disclaimer

This document is provided "as is" and the author disclaims all warranties with
regard to it, including all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness.
In no event shall the author be held liable for any special, direct, indirect,
or consequential damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data, or
profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence, or other tortious action,
arising out of or in connection with the use of this license or software
licensed under its terms.
